Welcome back.
Let's finally get into object oriented programming.
And our goal throughout the next couple of videos is to show you an example of how we can go from procedural
code from code that we repeat ourselves in.
That isn't really well organized to code that goes all the way to Object Oriented Programming we'll
start from the very basics.
And each time improve little by little until we get to the end.
Now we need a good example for this.
So what should we do.
I have an idea.
How about we create a game or start to create a game where let's say as a fairy tale game with all these
characters that interact play with each other maybe they fight one another or communicate with one another.
So using this let's create a program that has object oriented principles in mind to organize our code
how should we start.
Well we definitely have else over here in this game.
So I think the best place for us to start is to create while else.
Let's go ahead and do that the very first naive approach is to well create an elf object.
Right.
And our alpha object will keep everything basic for now we'll definitely have a name for our elf.
Let's create an elf called oral and this elf will have a weapon that would do.
Else usually have.
Let's go with Bo as the weapon.
And then we can attack with this weapon using while just return.
Attack with and then we can just do elf dot weapon so that now if I do elf dot name and I run this I
get.
Or Well if I do elf dot attack and I run this attack with bow awesome there's our elf but in this game
we're not going to have just one elf right.
We're going to have multiple else with different names different weapons maybe even different methods.
So what should we do if we want to add another elf while we copy and paste this code and create elf
to maybe the name is Sally.
Weapon is bow and once again if I want to create Sally I do elf to attack and there you go.
We have Sally attacking with a bow as well.
Now what's the benefit to what we've just done.
And at least moved us towards object oriented programming what we have something called Encapsulation
here we've grouped functionality together we have state that is data within the object and functions
or methods acting on that state so these methods can well interact with the state such as read it they
can even modify it we can have a method called Change weapon that changes weapon from let's say bow
to sort that's our first step in object oriented programming is we've encapsulated functionality that
can be contained to model real world such as else into these containers that's good but what's the problem
with this well the clear problem is that when we need more else which in this game we're gonna have
a ton of else shoot we have to copy and paste the same code over and over even though all the elves
have this same attack method we have to copy and paste copying base copy paste and most likely we have
a way more code than this that else can do way more properties way more methods and we're not keeping
our code very dry right.
We're just constantly repeating ourself.
So let's move on to the next level.
That is two step two of object oriented programming let's go with factory functions and factory functions
as the name suggests are functions that act like factories.
They create objects for us so let's do that.
I'm going to create a function create wealth so let's programmatically create else and this create Elf
is going to have name and weapon.
And we're just going to return a new ELF every time we run this function.
So I'm just going to return an object and inside this object we have name we have weapon and we have
attack and once again the attack is going to return for US attack with the weapon that we have.
So now here if let's say I do concept Peter and I create Elf and this elves name is while Peter and
the weapon will be let's say stones a very primitive weapon.
If I click Run and well let's run Peter dot attack if I click Run I get attacked with stones.
All right so that worked we've created a factory function that is a function that creates objects for
us and we can even simplify this a little bit using yes six syntax where if property and value are the
same we can just keep it like this inside of an object so that this still runs and the beauty with factory
functions is that.
Now if I want to create another elf all I do is create let's say Sam and Sam Sam's weapon is fire if
I do Sam attack I have attack with fire from Sam and instead of me copy and pasting code I now have
this function that just creates else for us we've moved up the step towards object oriented programming
we avoided repetitive code but there's still a problem here.
Factory functions are great but Keeney noticed something that we can improve here.
What if we had a thousand tiles and those a thousand else they require space in our memory rate to store
the same data and things like name and weapon well they're gonna be different.
So we need to store that data in memory for each shelf.
But methods such as attack that are pretty generic and they're the same thing that is going to be copied
onto memory in a different location for each one of these else so if we had a thousand tiles that's
a thousand attack functions in different places a memory for each elf assault.
The best is it luckily for us JavaScript has this interesting thing right we learned about it in the
last section when we talked about prototype all inheritance we can use that to our advantage to maybe
improve this so that we share functionality across different objects let's get to that in the next video.